Planning for more walking-friendly central urban areas improves public space attractiveness, social interactions, walking experience, active travel behavior, and urban sustainability. 
However, the lack of microscale design data (e.g. sidewalks, crosswalks, aesthetics, etc.) measuring aspects of walking qualities within Europe was a significant barrier in creating more 
comprehensive research programs and policies.

Our aim is to stimulate a rapid increase in the volume, detail, variety and quality of open data indicators available for cities, at high spatial resolution, 
in a way that promotes research and policy into better public spaces and quality of life in cities. By developing urban analytics for healthier and more walkable street environments 
throughout Europe, we envision how pedestrian-friendly are European central urban areas and we get a better understanding about pedestrian planning issues of each city center area.

In this manner, this website introduces density maps of high spatial resolution (50m X 50m) of 17 pre-processed and microscale walkability indicators, covering 59 central urban areas 
from 26 European countries. At the same time, we provide two extra tools for city comparisons and rankings, where users can pick up their preferences and compare city performance
 by walkability indicator and/or region.

In order to collect the raw GIS data (in polyline features), we applied a virtual (i.e., Google Street View) street audit tool on every street and crossing segment, 
and on both sides of each street separately, block-by-block. We digitized in polyline features observations and evaluations for a total of 112.577 (9.822 km) 
street- and/or crossing-segments, during a 21-month data collection period which required more than 46 trained observers.

The datasets can be utilized to raise awareness of unsatisfactory pedestrian environments and identify them as a key health and environmental issue, as well as to assist 
European policy-makers to apply urban mobility strategies and monitor progress in urban sustainability and public health goals.

Research questions of particular interest include: How useful can microscale walkability platforms be in tracking performance, public space quality and targeting cost-effective 
and realistic walkability solutions? Could cross-sectional or longitudinal microscale walkability data be used to identify specific types of places more susceptible to deprivation, 
poor health or gentrification? Is there a correlation between European-level microscale walkability indicators of city centers and subjective well-being, economic success, 
environmental sustainability, physical activity? Further methodological details about the datasets can be found in: Data in Brief Journal.